Add spectrum function to Fourier module (#1378)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/code/qml_fourier.rst

represent, potentially leading to greater utility for quantum machine learning
applications.

Calculating the frequencies supported by a circuit
--------------------------------------------------

For certain circuits, information on the frequency spectra :math:`\Omega_j`
can be derived solely from the structure of the gates
that encode the corresponding inputs :math:`x_j` (see for example `Schuld,
Sweke and Meyer (2020) <https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.08605>`__). More precisely, if
all input-encoding gates are of the form :math:`e^{-ix_j G}`, where :math:`G` is

> a Hamiltonian that "generates" the operation, we can deduce a maximum set of frequencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a Hermitian operator that "generates" the operation, we can deduce a maximum set of frequencies
```

that can theoretically appear in :math:`\Omega_j`.  Depending on the non-input-encoding
gates in the circuit, some of these theoretically supported frequencies may end up
having vanishing Fourier coefficients, and :math:`\Omega_j` effectively turns out to be smaller.
However, estimates based on the input-encoding strategy can still be useful to understand
the potential expressivity of a type of ansatz.

The theoretically supported frequencies can be computed
using the :func:`~.pennylane.fourier.spectrum` function. To mark which gates encode
inputs (and, for example, which ones are only used for trainable parameters), we
have to give input-encoding gates an ``id``:

.. code::

    import pennylane as qml

    dev = qml.device('default.qubit', wires=2)

    @qml.qnode(dev)

>     def simple_circuit_marked(x):

Author: Yes, it is deliberate - I find it neat in my own workflows to use the name of the variable as id...

>         qml.RX(x[0], wires=0, id="x")

Reviewer: There is already a `name` attribute for `Operation` that indicates the name of the gate itself (`"RX"`, `"CNOT"`, etc.) so it'd have to be something different. If not `id`, maybe `label`, or `tag`?

>         qml.RX(x[0], wires=0, id="x")

Reviewer 2: or perhaps changing the existing `name` to `op_name` or something if we like using `name` for the user's string to match with ML libraries

>         qml.RX(x[0], wires=0, id="x")

Reviewer 3: Changing `Operation.name` to refer to user specified labels would unfortunately be quite a breaking change, as it is used by every single plugin and a lot of external code that extends PL.

I quite like `label` as an alternative?

represent, potentially leading to greater utility for quantum machine learning
applications.

> Calculating the frequencies supported by an encoding

Reviewer: Instead of "encoding" should we instead use something like "circuit", or "quantum model" in the title here? While a key use case is for encoding data, you could in principle compute the coefficients w.r.t. the weights as well, if you mark them as inputs.

----------------------------------------------------

For certain circuits, information on the frequency spectra :math:`\Omega_i`

> can solely be derived from the structure of the gates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be derived solely from the structure of the gates
```

that encode the corresponding inputs :math:`x_i` (see for example `Schuld,
Sweke and Meyer (2020) <https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.08605>`__). More precisely, if

> all input-encoding gates are of the form :math:`e^{-ix_i G}`, where :math:`G` is

Reviewer: Recommend to change notation to use x_j and Omega_j (or some other subscript) in this section so as not to clash with the i in e^{-i x_j G}.

> For certain circuits, information on the frequency spectra :math:`\Omega_i`
> can be derived solely from the structure of the gates
> that encode the corresponding inputs :math:`x_i` (see for example `Schuld,
> Sweke and Meyer (2020) <https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.08605>`__). More precisely, if
> all input-encoding gates are of the form :math:`e^{-ix_i G}`, where :math:`G` is

Author: ```suggestion
For certain circuits, information on the frequency spectra :math:`\Omega_j`
can be derived solely from the structure of the gates
that encode the corresponding inputs :math:`x_j` (see for example `Schuld,
Sweke and Meyer (2020) <https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.08605>`__). More precisely, if
all input-encoding gates are of the form :math:`e^{-ix_j G}`, where :math:`G` is
```

a Hamiltonian that "generates" the operation, we can deduce a maximum set of frequencies

> that can theoretically appear in :math:`\Omega_i`.  Depending on the non-input-encoding
> gates in the circuit, some of these theoretically supported frequencies may end up
> having vanishing Fourier coefficients, and :math:`\Omega_i` effectively turns out to be smaller.

Author: ```suggestion
that can theoretically appear in :math:`\Omega_j`.  Depending on the non-input-encoding
gates in the circuit, some of these theoretically supported frequencies may end up
having vanishing Fourier coefficients, and :math:`\Omega_j` effectively turns out to be smaller.
```

However, estimates based on the input-encoding strategy can still be useful to understand
the potential expressivity of a type of ansatz.

The theoretically supported frequencies can be computed
using the :func:`~.pennylane.fourier.spectrum` function. To mark which gates encode
inputs (and, for example, which ones are only used for trainable parameters), we
have to give input-encoding gates an ``id``:

.. code::

    import pennylane as qml

    dev = qml.device('default.qubit', wires=2)

    @qml.qnode(dev)
    def simple_circuit_marked(x):
        qml.RX(x[0], wires=0, id="x")
        qml.RY(x[0], wires=1, id="x")
        qml.CNOT(wires=[1, 0])
        return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))

We can then compute the frequencies supported by the input-encoding gates as:

.. code::

   >>> from pennylane.fourier import spectrum

>    >>> freqs = spectrum(simple_circuit_marked)([0.1])

Reviewer: Why is it not just 
```
freqs = spectrum(simple_circuit_marked)
```
?

Author: The reason is simply that the qnode params could change the architecture (I think there is a test for this)

Reviewer: Ah, I see :+1:

   >>> for k, v in freqs.items():
   >>>     print(k, ":", v)

   x : [-2.0, -1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 2.0]

.. note::

    Some encoding gate types may give rise to non-integer-valued frequencies. In this case,

>     the :func:`~.pennylane.fourier.spectrum` function computes the frequency sets :math:`\Omega_i`

Author: ```suggestion
    the :func:`~.pennylane.fourier.spectrum` function computes the frequency sets :math:`\Omega_j`
```

    of the *Fourier sum* of the form

    .. math::

        f(x) = \sum \limits_{\omega_1\in \Omega_1} \dots \sum \limits_{\omega_N \in \Omega_N}
        c_{\omega_1,\dots, \omega_N} e^{-i x_1 \omega_1} \dots e^{-i x_N \omega_N},

    with :math:`\omega \in \mathbb{R}`. Just like any other function, such a sum can be turned into a
    proper Fourier series, but the mapping from non-integer-valued to integer-valued frequencies
    is not always trivial.

Calculating the Fourier coefficients
------------------------------------

To get a more accurate picture of the Fourier series representation of a quantum circuit,

> we have to compute the Fourier coefficients :math:`c_{n_1,\ldots,n_N}`. Since this computation
> does not scale well, it has to be done using numerical methods, as used in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we have to compute the Fourier coefficients :math:`c_{n_1,\ldots,n_N}`. This is done using numerical methods in the
```
Wouldn't mention scaling issues here, as under the hood the FFT is being used, which is O(N log N) :slightly_smiling_face:
